Previously on Legacies...
LANDON: I learned today
that no matter how hard we try,
we can't solve
the monster problem.
So I have to leave Mystic Falls
knowing that they'll follow me.
Every monster
that comes out of that portal
wants him for Malivore.
I am not here for Landon Kirby.
You serve a new master.
(laughing)
ALARIC:
And who the hell are you?
NECROMANCER:
Bringer of life and death.
The cursed king
of the underworld.
The Necromancer!
(rumbling)
Oh, the knife is destroyed.
One lock is released.
And with it...
so am I.
(grunts)
Hey. You can't sleep here.
I wasn't sleeping,
you thundering dolt!
I was magically transported
here to this...
What is this place?
It's a strip mall.
And you're gonna have
to magically transport
somewhere else,
'cause it's also
private property.
Worm!
Do you have any idea
to whom you speak?
I am the...
Necro...
Oh!
(breathing shakily)
What did Malivore
do to me?
No idea. But
if you don't
leave here,
I'm-a have to call the cops.
Silence!
My powers.
He took them.
Oh, but we had a deal!
He promised me!
Okay, cops it is.
(phone dialing)
Wait. Tell me.
Am I in peace?
Buddy, you're in Texas.
(sighs)
HOPE:
Starting over.
In theory, it's simple.
You put the past behind you,
take what you learned
and begin again.
But it's not as easy
as it sounds.
Moving on
means letting things go.
Things that are familiar,
easy, safe.
Things that matter.
Someone once said
you can't go home again.
I hope like hell
they were wrong.
Oh.
It's just you.
Alyssa, what's all this?
I moved in while you were
forgotten or whatever.
Your side's over there.
I usually have a single.
Which is what
I had until this exact moment.
I go to bed at 10:00,
so no late-night visitors.
And I don't want ants,
so no eating in the room.
Later, roomie.
(coughs)
(sighs)
(scoffs)
You're late for class.
Or are you lost?
Uh, both.
Apparently, everything changed
when I was gone.
Where's spell lab?
No idea.
I'm a little out of the
loop myself. (chuckles)
I just like to stride
confidently and, uh, nod
in hopes that people
don't figure that out.
But speaking of being
out of the loop,
Lizzie and Josie
are avoiding me.
Why? What's up?
(chuckles):
I wouldn't know.
Things are still awkward
between me and Josie.
I mean, I thought
they were okay.
It's just bad again.
Yeah, well, knowing
you and Landon
are together and seeing it
are two very different things.
I just wish there was
something I could do.
You just have to give
her some time, you know?
Things will go back
to normal soon enough.
I hope.
(chuckles)
Yeah.
Spell lab.
Oh!
Ric.
Mm.
So, I touched base
with Caroline.
Mm.
She wants us to track
down the real Vardemus
and make sure he's okay.
(exhales) I'm more concerned
about the fake Vardemus
enrolling a 500-year-old vampire
in my absence.
Technically, Sebastian
was in a coffin
for 483 of them, but yeah.
Yeah, but we have
our recruitment bylaws.
Which Vardemus revised.
Not to mention
a lengthy admission process.
Which he waived.
Do you know that he got rid
of the espresso machine?
He was more of a tea person.
Look, I need to know more
about this Sebastian.
We can't blindly let him in here
without knowing more
about his history.
You're right. I'll have
my intern do a deep dive
into the historical records
to see if there's
any trace of him.
You have an intern?
Dad. Hi.
Liz-bear.
You're late for class.
Oh.
Um, I... I got distracted,
and I lost track of time.
But it was... it was dumb
and irresponsible,
and it will
never happen again.
♪ If you're happy
and you know it ♪
♪ Clap your hands ♪
♪ If you're happy
and you know it ♪
♪ Clap your hands ♪
♪ If you're happy
and you know it ♪
♪ Then your face
will surely show it ♪
♪ If you're happy
and you know it ♪
♪ Clap your hands. ♪
(employees clap)
(sighs)
Hear me, insect.
This is the master of death
calling to you.
Rise.
MAN:
Uh...
Ted? Got a sec?
You know, it's crazy hat day,
and you're not wearing
a crazy hat.
How could I make
such a mistake?
Look.
(clears throat)
I don't think of myself
as your boss.
I think of myself
as your friend.
And bottom line is I need
my friends to be on time,
participate in spirit days
and, most of all,
sing...
when someone puts money
in the jar.
Think you can do that?
Sure.
Gary.
(clicks tongue)
(hits counter)
Don't let him get to you, man.
No one gets to me.
I just get so mad, you know?
One time he pissed me off,
I toasted his phone
with the waffle cones.
That was you?
That masterstroke provided me
the only smile I've
had this month.
Sick.
(exhales)
Chad.
I'm the...
Ted.
I'm Ted.
(clears throat)
Hey, Jo.
Uh, what's up?
Hey.
I got you some brownies.
Um, I have to run, though.
I love you.
(chuckles)
Love you, too.
(clears throat)
Sebastian. Sit.
(sighs)
Sebastian, our
school was founded
to keep young supernaturals
safe from the world.
Well,
my impression is that it exists
to keep the world safe from us.
It's a balance.
Look,
I'm not convinced
you belong here.
We don't admit vampires
over the age of 17.
But...
(sighs)
Since you've been
stuck in that coffin,
I might make an exception
if you pass our tests.
So today you will spend time
with the various
factions. The goal
is to see if you can
control your basic urges.
You know who would be
an ideal guide
is your daughter Elizabeth.
You stay away from my daughters.
Consider this
your one warning.
Well, if I'm so dangerous,
who shall be
administering this test?
The only student who'll
come back to life
if you kill him.
Pretty much everyone
gets along here.
Um, there are other
supernatural schools, I guess,
but we're the only one that
integrates all three factions.
It can be a little overwhelming
for new students.
'Tis not three factions.
'Tis four.
Tell me, what powers
does a phoenix possess?
Surely, it's more than
merely dying often.
That's, uh...
That's kind of it.
I'm cool with it, though.
I mean, everyone else has
the hero angle covered here.
I'm better as a sidekick.
Mm.
I imagine it would be nice
not to be killed
quite so easily.
Sorry about last
time, by the way.
No worries.
You're not the first person
around here who's killed me.
Hey.
Hi.
How's it going? What-What's up?
(Josie clears throat)
The usual. Getting rid
of magical evidence before
my dad overreacts.
Sure.
Anyways, see you later.
SEBASTIAN:
Is this what they call
"teen drama"?
Shut up. Hey.
Hey.
How's it... Uh, hi.
Josie didn't leave
because of me, right?
I hope not.
Um, you're all moved in?
Yeah.
Um, Alyssa Chang generously
gave me back 20% of my room.
Plenty of space
for the nine things I still own.
What's going on?
Uh, Dr. Saltzman
is having me test
Sebastian here to see
if he can stay at the school.
Call if you need backup?
I can assure you, I will
be on my best behavior.
Even a sidekick can handle me.
NECROMANCER:
This is a charade.
We shouldn't be here cleaning
congealed dairy and sugar.
We should be kings.
People should tremble
at the sound of our names.
Preach.
Power, Chad!
That's what
I'm talking about.
Real power.
Cash money.
No!
Not money.
Any fool can get rich.
Oh, right.
Necromancy.
Dominion over life and death.
The ability to bend
the universe to your will.
Like that sweet gig
you used to have.
Walking around,
being your own boss,
raising people from the dead.
You believe my story?
Of course.
I'm into all that stuff
the government
doesn't want us to know
about-- UFOs, lizard men,
Bigfoot.
I just wish I could've
seen you kick ass
back in the day.
Maybe you're not too late.
Rise.
(short laugh)
(laughing)
Did you just...?
I've been practicing.
Now you've witnessed
my sorcery, I have one question
for you, Chad.
Will you be my acolyte?
Hell yeah.
What-What's an acolyte?
It's a fancy word
for "follower."
Where are we going?
We're going back to the way
things used to be.
Because somehow...
I'm gonna become
the Necromancer again.
Rise, feline.
Rise.
(whispering):
How long's it supposed to take?
(groans)
I don't know, Chad.
Cockroaches
are child's play
compared to more
complex animals.
Ev-Eventually you work your
way back up to humans, right?
All in good time,
my acolyte.
Malivore took my powers,
but he couldn't
take my birthright--
a propensity for magic.
Now I need to rebuild
my skills, step by step.
Why do you think Malivore
did this to you?
Well, if you were
promised peace,
why did he send you here?
I'm sure he was
jealous of my power.
That I was the only one who
was smart enough to outfox...
Oh, that's strange.
I can't remember
who I stole the knife from.
I mean, I remember the man
with the anger issues
and the impressive jawline,
but there was someone else.
(cat meows)
(gasps)
Ah.
(screaming)
(indistinct crowd chatter)
So you get to see all of these
amazing alternate universes,
but then, eventually, everything
just resets back to normal,
and the heroes don't even
remember any of it?
Lame.
(laughs, sighs)
I got to say, I'm surprised
you wanted to hang out.
I thought you weren't gonna talk
to me ever again.
Gaslighting me was
a reprehensible act,
but keep supplying me
with superheroes in spandex,
and we'll call it a wash.
(sighs)
Okay.
Come clean.
You-you hate
all this nerdy stuff.
Okay, fine.
I'm trying not to have sex
with Sebastian again.
I thought you hated him, too.
I did. I mean, I do. I just...
I'm also incredibly
turned on by him.
Oh, I don't need to hear
any of this.
So we're-- we've been
having a lot of sex.
And-and my mind is
telling me to stop,
but apparently my body
didn't get the message about
how much of a feminist I am.
So I'm trying to avoid him
until he is inevitably
kicked out of school.
And comic books are the literary
equivalent of a cold shower.
That's actually a graphic novel.
Okay, yeah, that's good.
Keep saying stuff like that.
No. This is
a seminal work of fiction,
not something to run
your horny clock out.
(siren wailing in distance)
(clatters)
(burps)
Come on, man.
Get... get up!
You-you can't just
mope around like this.
You-you want to do
magic or something?
Hmm. Pointless!
Ah, I was
foolish to think
I could reclaim my former glory.
It took me centuries
to become the Necromancer
in the first place!
You can't give up
on your dreams, man!
You should fight him.
We both should fight him.
Where is Malivore right now?
He's a sentient pit
of black goo in rural Georgia.
Okay. Well,
then we pee on him.
Yeah. We take a leak
right in that pit.
That'll show him who's boss.
Yeah.
Yeah!
(tennis shoes squeaking,
ball bouncing)
(indistinct chatter)
(grunts)
JED:
Hey.
Have you heard from Raf?
Uh, he's staying
with his dad for a bit.
I think it'll be good for him.
Tell, uh, Captain Cheekbones
he's got a weird
staring problem.
(laughs airily)
LANDON:
It's okay. Lots of vampires
can't be around one werewolf,
let alone this many.
Most vampires can't
control their emotions.
Downside of all
the power, I guess.
I think having no power
would be far more concerning.
You know, a little
blonde birdie told me that
Clarke almost
killed Hope.
She was powerless and
running for her life,
and you were...
you were...
you were searching
for yourself?
I was trying
to keep everyone safe.
And did it work?
Mm. Not that you
could have done
anything anyway, of course,
but if the girl that
I had loved was in danger,
I would want to be
able to protect her.
He'll play.
♪ Two, three ♪
(whistle blows)
♪ I used to worry
about the way that I walk ♪
(grunting)
♪ Like, was I talking
too loud? ♪
♪ And could I hang
with the jocks? ♪
♪ It's never easy
to be different inside ♪
OTHERS: Oh!
♪ But when you don't
give a ... ♪
♪ It's just like riding a bike ♪
(grunting)
♪ I try to tell 'em
"See ya later!" ♪
♪ I send my love
to all the haters ♪
♪ Yeah, I just wanna
let 'em know... ♪
(laughing)
Well played, my lupine friend.
Rematch anytime,
bloodsucker.
(laughing):
Anytime.
♪ This baby don't cry. ♪
This is fun.
(grunts)
Oh, Malivore!
You have visitors.
We brought you
a little pre...
(unzips)
Pit is empty.
Someone closed
the portal. (laughs)
Malivore was defeated.
You were right.
And if Malivore can be beaten,
anything's possible.
(laughing):
Oh.
I can fulfill my destiny.
That's what
I'm talking about!
Yeah.
So-so what do we do next?
How do we level you up?
Oh, dark sorcery requires
a steep price
to be paid
in exchange for power.
I'm afraid I must sacrifice
that which I hold most dear.
What's that?
The only thing
in this wretched existence
I've grown fond of.
(both grunt)
(opera playing)
NECROMANCER:
Rise.
Come back to this plane.
There you are.
(laughing)
Dude.
What happened to your face?
This is my true face.
Behold
the mark of the underworld.
Wait. Did you kill me?
Technically.
But I always intended
to raise you from perdition.
What? Shouldn't you have
warned me or something?
Uh, you're missing
the headline, Chad.
I can now raise... humans.
Well, I'm not a zombie,
though, right?
You can't, like,
control me?
Try this on.
What's this?
Iconic!
I must become a mysterious
symbol that both
terrifies
and intrigues my acolytes.
Acolytes, plural?
Fear not. It's all part
of my master plan.
I'll catch you
up on the way.
Where are we going?
To a place of immense
magical energy, a place where
so many people have died,
the very ground courses
with blood and power.
Have you ever been to Virginia?
ALYSSA:
Hey, Greasley,
I heard he's moving in
on your girl.
Is that him?
Well, she's not my girl,
and can I sit with you
and the witches?
I've had enough
of vampires today.
ALYSSA:
Oh, you're our favorite vampire.
If you hate him, we hate him.
He makes us look bad
with his old-ass Dracula ways.
So run him out. He's doing
his behavioral tests.
Make him fail.
How?
Find me a Band-Aid, will you?
So, you get along
with the wolves.
Now we just have to see if you
fit in with the vampires here.
Uh, we can hang out
while they eat.
Or drink, I guess.
Animal blood, of course.
Of course.
(plate shatters)
It slipped.
(vampires hissing)
Code red.
Vamps, clear out. Now!
Jed, calm your pack down.
(pack snarling)
Wolves, follow me.
(exhales deeply)
Breathe, Milton, breathe!
Focus only on the
sound of my voice.
Breathe! Breathe.
Breathe.
(Milton shuddering)
The urge will pass.
I'm sorry.
The witch, she broke
that plate on purpose.
Between her and your...
budding Ripper,
are you sure it is me that
you should be worried about?
(chanting in foreign language)
(panting heavily)
This is it.
A site of almost
unlimited magical power.
(chuckles)
Huh.
I thought it'd be bigger.
Chad, please!
I will consecrate the ground.
Then we will set a trap
for the next hapless soul
who wanders through.
You never said
anything about that.
To seal my bond to this place
and draw from the mystical
hot spot beneath,
I'll need to murder.
A murder of pure,
unbridled cruelty.
(laughs)
What's that?
Um, an assignment that
Clarke had me working on
when he was pretending
to be Headmaster Vardemus.
Well, Clarke's dead,
so I'm pretty sure
you don't have
to turn that in.
I was actually just working
on getting rid of it.
So, should be easy.
Magic nullification?
Those are advanced
chain spells.
You would need
another witch.
What kind of assignment was it?
I can help.
I'm sure we can
handle it.
I mean, it could be
good practice for us.
Have fun.
Thank you.
Uh, but I actually
don't need any help, so...
Lizzie told me
about the Sandclock.
She thought I could help.
How?
My friend Vincent told me
a story about Mora Miseriums
that hold the effects
of black magic,
and how dangerous they can be
if they break.
Look, you can't nullify
the black magic inside,
but you can put a protective
barrier around the outside.
And I know a good spell
for that.
Oh... they have a Mora Miserium.
In one stroke,
it could restore my power.
Yeah.
You recall the girl
who suddenly returned
to my memory, the Tribrid?
Yeah, she'll be an obstacle.
We may have to kill her.
Might as well kill all her
friends while we're at it, eh?
Yeah.
Okay, this is the final
part of the test:
hanging with the witches.
Um, I'm warning you,
don't push any buttons.
Or you'll do what,
die all over me?
It's not me you should
be worried about.
Will you relax?
Witches love me.
(indistinct chatter)
Hello, Elizabeth.
Oh... hey.
Oh, you again.
I must say you just
heal quickly.
Right? It's like
magic or something.
And what magic is that
crystal ball for?
Empathic trances.
It lets us read feelings
that are buried deep down.
Can we read yours? Vampires have
heightened emotions.
It'll be a total rush.
I, for one, would like that.
Then of course.
I do love a good parlor trick.
I sense...
...fear.
The modern world is
terrifying to you.
You're afraid they won't let you
stay here at the school.
That's not true.
You're afraid
they're gonna find out
all the things you've done
and throw you away, like trash
off the side of a boat.
Stop.
Maybe we should...
You know Lizzie's
better than you
and that you don't deserve her.
(grunts)
(high-pitched tone sounding)
(pained crying)
Stop! Stop!
Let him go.
(panting)
Have you come to gloat, Landon?
I just wanted to see
if you were okay.
The fundamental truth
is that I am not.
When I was eight years old,
my parents, they sold me
to a merchant ship.
I hated that life,
so every port we
sailed to, I ran away.
But the crew,
they always found me again.
And they devised
very special punishments for me.
This is a cruel world,
Landon, and I expect
very little from it.
But Elizabeth wants me,
and I want her, too.
I guess none of that matters
now since I failed your test.
It's actually kind of beautiful.
I guess.
If you can look past
the visions of doom.
Thank you for doing this.
I couldn't have done
this without you.
No, thank you.
This is the most normal
I've felt all day.
You should know
Vincent also told me that
the Sandclock degrades
over time.
At some point, it will
break down from the inside
no matter what we do.
But this will at least
give us some time
to figure out how to defuse it.
♪ The endless of darkness
is hovering... ♪
Why did Clarke choose me?
You're a trusting person.
And you're more powerful
than you know.
I don't want to be
either of those things.
The second that he had me
doing black magic, my head...
it's like it's not mine anymore.
I get upset more easily,
I'm on edge.
♪ Taking me, taking me... ♪
Jealous.
It's not all the magic.
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ This pull is astronomical... ♪
When I got out of Malivore,
um, I came here.
It was the first place
I wanted to be.
♪ I'm drawn to the unknown,
where shadows hide... ♪
You guys were the first people
I wanted to see.
I snuck onto campus.
Um...
♪ Something inside of me... ♪
You and Landon were having
movie night, or something,
at the mill.
I saw you...
Hope.
You both looked so happy.
♪ Ooh... ♪
And I was so jealous.
♪ Is astronomical... ♪
If the wrong person crossed
my path in that moment,
I can't imagine the damage
I would have done.
How did you move past it?
I tried to move on.
And I got a lot
of that wrong, too.
Obviously.
But that doesn't mean
we can't try again.
♪ Is astronomical. ♪
(knock on door)
What are you reading?
(chuckles)
It's a book Dorian got me.
It's about a band of
marauding pirate vampires.
Sounds high concept.
Uh, we finished the tour...
tests, whatever.
And?
Sebastian's no more dangerous
than anyone else at this school.
(chuckles)
Well, I am surprised
to hear that.
Thank you, Landon.
For whatever it's worth,
coming from the guy who stole
a magical artifact that
kick-started the apocalypse...
...sometimes people just need
a chance to get things right.
(music playing over headphones)
♪ Such a motormouth ♪
♪ Don't care what she's about ♪
♪ Everybody's like ♪
♪ She's the last payback ♪
♪ There's not any doubt... ♪
(gasps)
I could hear
your music
from miles away. Ah.
(gasps)
(crunching, squishing)
(grunts)
(groaning)
(laughing)
(grunting)
Oh. I didn't think
you had it in you.
You were talking
about killing kids.
I had to stop you.
You can't stop me, Chad.
You're not in control
of yourself anymore.
I'm not your friend.
I'm your eternal master.
(laughs)
Now kneel.
(chuckles)
I think I figured it out.
Oh, yeah?
Why Malivore did it to you.
What if he wasn't
screwing you over?
What if he made you human
to give you a shot at peace?
And if you could have
just lived that life well,
you might have gotten there.
He gave you a chance
to start over.
And you blew it, Ted.
Don't ever call me that again.
My name is The Necromancer.
You seem pleased with yourself.
(groaning)
How did you find me?
You think I'm
gonna let you
walk around my school
without an active locator spell?
I know who you are now.
And I can't let you
loose in the world.
But I know even vampires
can change.
So I'm gonna give you a chance
to prove me wrong about you.
But you're gonna have
to follow my rules.
I don't follow orders anymore.
Then you're gonna have
to go back in the box.
I'll just get out again.
And it will be your daughter
who sets me free.
Yeah, you see,
I can control her mind.
Oh, how I love that control.
I've had her, you know.
All over your school.
Mm-hmm, yes.
No matter what you do
or where you go,
you will not be able
to protect her from me.
And you will fail as her father
over and over
and over again.
The only way is to kill me.
(grunts)
NECROMANCER: And with one swift
stroke, I decapitated the decoy.
Now behold the real
son of Malivore.
The circle is ready, master.
Is that sarcasm in your voice?
Let's not ruin this momentous
occasion with a tone, Chad.
Bring me the Crane's Foot.
(grunts)
(chuckles)
All right, son of Malivore.
Let's make ourselves a portal.
(chants in foreign language)
(cackles)
("Words Ain't Enough"
by Tessa Violet playing)
Hey.
Oh. Done already?
All right.
So what do you want next?
What's the mood?
Today sucked.
You got anything for that?
(quietly):
Let's see.
I got a feeling your
day's about to get
a lot better.
Yeah.
Have you met my new intern yet?
♪ You're proud ♪
♪ But you're cold
when it counts... ♪
(chuckles):
Kym.
JOSIE:
I should have asked
for help sooner.
I was so worried that the
Sandclock would break,
and all that magic
would come back to me
and I'd end up hurting someone.
But it didn't.
We're all safe.
I know, and, um,
I didn't ask because I thought
that I'd be okay
seeing you and Hope together,
but it actually kind of just
feels, like, really lonely.
And it's...
kind of just what I do.
I push people away
when I need them most.
Because I'm ridiculous.
Would it make you feel better to
hear how I was ridiculous today?
Yeah.
Um...
When Sebastian flipped out
on the witches,
I realized there was nothing
I could do to help.
I'm not one
of the heroes here,
and I thought
I was okay with it.
But now I don't know.
It's not too late to become one.
And you are not ridiculous.
I missed talking to you
like this.
(laughs)
I want us to be friends.
Not like ex friends,
like actual friends.
(laughs):
That sounds nice.
(door opens)
What's all this?
♪ Carve me up into... ♪
Just a little something
to make you feel more at home.
♪ To choose,
till I'm only pieces of you ♪
♪ So you can say
you love me, but... ♪
JOSIE:
It's not exactly how it was,
but we thought maybe
you might like it if we changed
it up a little bit.
(laughs softly)
♪ So you can say you love me ♪
(soft laughter)
♪ But words ain't enough. ♪
Dad.
You kicked Sebastian out, right?
Uh...
I gave him the option
to follow the rules.
But he,
he chose to leave instead.
So he didn't want to stay.
No.
Good.
That's-that's good.
Uh, honestly, I, I'm just
relieved that he's gone.
(crying):
No, i-it's good.
It's a good thing.
(quietly):
Oh, I'm sorry.
Aw...
(crying)
(sniffles)
(thunder crashes)
(Necromancer chuckles)
I don't see anything.
I do.
(creature growls)
(Necromancer laughs)
(growling)
(gasps)
(low growl)
(chuckles)
Hello there,
my new friend.
Malivore promised you
peace, didn't he?
I have a much better offer.
I can grant you
freedom from death.
All you have to do
is pay a visit
to the Salvatore School
and bring me back what I need.